---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-03-14T03:45:40.345Z'
dateModified: '2016-03-14T03:42:19.591Z'
title: ''
author: []
sourcePath: _posts/2016-03-14-de0afb25-3f2d-46a8-b97c-3fd0dd7a23cb.md
published: true
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
url: de0afb25-3f2d-46a8-b97c-3fd0dd7a23cb/index.html
_type: Article

---
## Wednesday, November 5, 2014

I have a goal.  I want to develop a wilderness survival dog.  What does this mean?  I'm not entirely sure yet.  I have some experience with wilderness survival but I am not yet an expert.  I can think of a few pros to having a dog around in a wilderness survival scenario.  The dog could potentially drive off predators, find food, provide warmth on cold nights, etc.  However, there are also many cons to consider.  The dog is another mouth to feed, it may scare off prey or give away one's position at an undesired moment, etc.  Ultimately, I can't think of any major survival problem that a dog might solve that would be worth the extra effort of keeping it.  Nevertheless, I believe they have a role to play, I just need to find out what that is.  

The first question, then, is what breed I will use.  I intend to start with the American Pit Bull Terrier (APBT).  There are many reasons for this, including their high prey drive, hardiness, and gameness.  I'm not yet sure if I will need to cross other breeds into the APBT to get the perfect wilderness survival dog, but I am open to the idea.  APBT's were not bred for this purpose and I'm sure there are ways they can be improved for the task.

This is my goal.  It will take a lot of time.  Years.  I'll document my progress on this site.